I had the design for the website sketched out on figma a long time ago. It has been months since I wanted to make a personal website but because of work and laziness I never got around to it. It was really fun to build my own website and showcase my work. The process of design was probably the longest because there are so many cool designs out there from other developers. I got a lot of inspiration from Pinterest and other websites like www.awwwards.com. I tried doing the entire process of web design starting from wire framing to making it in figma. Development started with creating a HTML boiler plate, from here I created all the section that I wanted and started from the top. I created the navbar just like I designed it in figma, I then finished the landing page and moved on to making the about page. I struggled a lot here when it came to making it responsive. For some reason I couldn't get it to work which took a lot of time. I then decided to use boot strap and use their card components because it made it a lot easier to make the website responsible. However this became a problem because it would overwrite some of the previous CSS I wrote. I then had to go back and fix and over write CSS the accommodate for the newly imported styles from bootstrap. Even after importing bootstrap it took me a while to figure out which CSS was applying and and what was not. I eventually was able to get the about page to work and got the hang of bootstrap cards. I started to use them for my project section as well and this time it went since I already knew how to make the bootstrap cards. This time the issue I ran into was figuring our layout in bootstrap. I had to figure the difference between container and container-fluid. I then used card grids to make a 4 piece layout for my projects. I had a different idea in mind but because of time constraints I just used simple cards. If I had more time I would style the cards differently and had more pictures. In the projects section I also learned about the target attribute for a link. Instead of redirecting you to the link on the same page it will open a new tab. This was a cool little feature I learned that makes the user interaction a little easier instead of having to go back every time you visit a link. Bootstrap Icons came in handy here swill. Instead of going out to download png or svg I imported them directly from bootstrap icons. I really liked making my skills section, was simple and quick and it looks nice. It adds some color to my webpage without having to mess around with color schemes and all that. When making this section I got the idea of adding some animations. I then went and figured out how to make a hover animation where the item grows. I also added this hover affect to the other cards in the web page. This added a nice interactive feel to the website. The experience page I wanted to actually implement the resume using html and CSS. However, I was running out of time so I just uploaded the resume itself and styled it nicely in the center of the page easy to read. I would also eventually like to add a download pdf version so if a recruiter is on my page the can download my resume and send it to their company if needed. The last section was the contact form this was easier since we made one in class and there are a lot of examples online. I wanted to use JavaScript to have it send emails. However I learned that you need node.js to have it send emails and that was a whole project of its own. Instead I found this thing called formsubmit.co which made it easy for someone to send emails using a contact form. You basically register your form and it gives you a secret code which you put into the action part of the form. Through this someone is able to send you emails using a html form. Overall the website was a fun way to end the term and my 4 years at PSU getting a CS degree. I would have liked to add a lot more the website, like JavaScript or embed some projects into the page but the finals week was heavy. Learned a lot however and now I have something to show off at the end of my degree!
